Let's see what MongoDB provides for querying documents.
I've inserted a few documents into
the patient's collection to help me demonstrate the querying capabilities.
These are the documents that I've inserted.
So far we only used Find without any argument.
Let's add an argument.
Here, I've added a query just like the update method has.
So we are finding documents with last name that matches 'Khan'.
Find also supports logical operators like OR and AND.
Here's an example of how to use the dollar or
operator to perform a logical OR during querying.
You can also query based on the values of an array.
In the patient's document,
the field "Medicines" is an array,
so let's query based on that.
I'm going to find all patients who have Advil as medicines in their array.
You can also use it to find matches within sub-documents.
Let's find patients living in Alabama.
The state says Alabama here.
You can also sort using the sort method.
We're finding all patients whose gender field equals male,
and we're sorting by the first name.
Number one means the sort is in ascending order.
If you want it in descending order,
you can use negative one here.
You can see that the first name is sorted in ascending order.
You can also do a count like this.
That's three documents that match the criteria. Also a limit.
Selects all documents with gender equals female,
and limits it to one, and then prints it.
These operations can also be combined like this.
You find then you sort,
then you limit, then you print it.
You found all documents with gender as male,
and sorted it by first name in descending order,
and then we limited it to two.
As you can see, MongoDB provides a pretty powerful and flexible querying model.